In the last video,
you saw how the Skip-Gram model allows you
to construct a supervised learning task.
So we map from context to target and
how that allows you to learn
a useful word embedding.
But the downside of that was the Softmax
objective was slow to compute.
In this video, you'll see a modified
learning problem called negative sampling
that allows you to do something similar to
the Skip-Gram model you saw just now, but
with a much more efficient
learning algorithm.
Let's see how you can do this.
Most of the ideas presented in this video
are due to Tomas Mikolov, Ilya Sutskever,
Kai Chen, Greg Corrado, and Jeff Dean.
So what we're going to
do in this algorithm is
create a new supervised learning problem.
And the problem is, given a pair
of words like orange and juice,
we're going to predict,
is this a context-target pair?
So in this example,
orange juice was a positive example.
And how about orange and king?
Well, that's a negative example, so
I'm going to write 0 for the target.
So what we're going to do is we're
actually going to sample a context and
a target word.
So in this case,
we have orange and juice and
we'll associate that with a label of 1,
so just put words in the middle.
And then having generated a positive
example, so the positive example is
generated exactly how we generated
it in the previous videos.
Sample a context word, look around
a window of say, plus-minus ten words and
pick a target word.
So that's how you generate the first row
of this table with orange, juice, 1.
And then to generate a negative example,
you're going to take the same context word
and then just pick a word at
random from the dictionary.
So in this case, I chose the word king
at random and we will label that as 0.
And then let's take orange and let's pick
another random word from the dictionary.
Under the assumption that
if we pick a random word,
it probably won't be associated with
the word orange, so orange, book, 0.
And let's pick a few others,
orange, maybe just by chance,
we'll pick the 0 and then orange.
And then orange, and maybe just by chance,
we'll pick the word of and
we'll put a 0 there.
And notice that all of these
are labeled as 0 even though
the word of actually appears
next to orange as well.
So to summarize, the way we generated this
data set is, we'll pick a context word and
then pick a target word and
that is the first row of this table.
That gives us a positive example.
So context, target, and
then give that a label of 1.
And then what we'll do is for some number
of times say, k times, we're going to
take the same context word and then
pick random words from the dictionary,
king, book, the, of, whatever comes
out at random from the dictionary and
label all those 0, and
those will be our negative examples.
And it's okay if just by chance, one
of those words we picked at random from
the dictionary happens
to appear in the window,
in a plus-minus ten word window say,
next to the context word, orange.
Then we're going to create
a supervised learning problem where
the learning algorithm inputs x,
inputs this pair of words,
and it has to predict the target
label to predict the output y.
So the problem is really given a pair
of words like orange and juice,
do you think they appear together?
Do you think I got these two words by
sampling two words close to each other?
Or do you think I got them as
one word from the text and
one word chosen at random
from the dictionary?
It's really to try to distinguish between
these two types of distributions from
which you might sample a pair of words.
So this is how you
generate the training set.
How do you choose k, Mikolov et al,
recommend that maybe k is 5 to 20 for
smaller data sets.
And if you have a very large data set,
then chose k to be smaller.
So k equals 2 to 5 for larger data sets,
and large values of k for
smaller data sets.
Okay, and in this example,
I'll just use k = 4.
Next, let's describe
the supervised learning model for
learning a mapping from x to y.
So here was the Softmax model
you saw from the previous video.
And here is the training set we got
from the previous slide where again,
this is going to be the new input x and
this is going to be the value
of y you're trying to predict.
So to define the model, I'm going to
use this to denote, this was c for
the context word, this to denote
the possible target word, t,
and this, I'll use y to denote 0,
1, this is a context target pair.
So what we're going to do is define
a logistic regression model.
Say, that the chance of y = 1,
given the input c, t pair,
we're going to model this as
basically a regression model,
but the specific formula
we'll use s sigma applied to
theta transpose, theta t transpose, e c.
So the parameters are similar as before,
you have one parameter vector theta for
each possible target word.
And a separate parameter vector,
really the embedding vector, for
each possible context word.
And we're going to use this formula
to estimate the probability that
y is equal to 1.
So if you have k examples here,
then you can think of this as having
a k to 1 ratio of negative
to positive examples.
So for every positive examples, you have k
negative examples with which to train
this logistic regression-like model.
And so to draw this as a neural network,
if the input word is orange,
Which is word 6257, then what you do is,
you input the one hop
vector passing through e,
do the multiplication to get
the embedding vector 6257.
And then what you have is
really 10,000 possible
logistic regression
classification problems.
Where one of these will be
the classifier corresponding to,
well, is the target word juice or not?
And then there will be other words,
for example,
there might be ones somewhere down here
which is predicting, is the word king or
not and so on, for
these possible words in your vocabulary.
So think of this as having 10,000
binary logistic regression classifiers,
but instead of training all 10,000
of them on every iteration,
we're only going to train five of them.
We're going to train the one responding
to the actual target word we got and
then train four randomly
chosen negative examples.
And this is for
the case where k is equal to 4.
So instead of having one
giant 10,000 way Softmax,
which is very expensive to compute,
we've instead turned
it into 10,000 binary
classification problems,
each of which is quite cheap to compute.
And on every iteration, we're only going
to train five of them or more generally,
k + 1 of them, of k negative examples and
one positive examples.
And this is why the computation cost
of this algorithm is much lower because
you're updating k + 1,
let's just say units,
k + 1 binary classification problems.
Which is relatively cheap to do
on every iteration rather than
updating a 10,000 way Softmax classifier.
So you get to play with this
algorithm in the problem exercise for
this week as well.
So this technique is called negative
sampling because what you're doing is,
you have a positive example,
the orange and then juice.
And then you will go and deliberately
generate a bunch of negative examples,
negative samplings, hence,
the name negative sampling,
with which to train four more
of these binary classifiers.
And on every iteration,
you choose four different
random negative words with which
to train your algorithm on.
Now, before wrapping up, one more
important detail with this algorithm is,
how do you choose the negative examples?
So after having chosen
the context word orange,
how do you sample these words to
generate the negative examples?
So one thing you could do is
sample the words in the middle,
the candidate target words.
One thing you could do is sample it
according to the empirical frequency of
words in your corpus.
So just sample it according to how
often different words appears.
But the problem with that is that you
end up with a very high representation
of words like the, of, and, and so on.
One other extreme would be to say,
you use 1 over the vocab size,
sample the negative examples
uniformly at random, but
that's also very non-representative
of the distribution of English words.
So the authors, Mikolov et al, reported
that empirically, what they found to work
best was to take this heuristic value,
which is a little bit in between the two
extremes of sampling from the empirical
frequencies, meaning from whatever's
the observed distribution in English
text to the uniform distribution.
And what they did was they
sampled proportional to their
frequency of a word to
the power of three-fourths.
So if f of wi is the observed frequency of
a particular word in the English language
or in your training set corpus, then by
taking it to the power of three-fourths,
this is somewhere in-between the extreme
of taking uniform distribution.
And the other extreme of just taking
whatever was the observed distribution
in your training set.
And so I'm not sure this is very
theoretically justified, but multiple
researchers are now using this heuristic,
and it seems to work decently well.
So to summarize, you've seen how you can
learn word vectors in a Softmax classier,
but it's very computationally expensive.
And in this video, you saw how by
changing that to a bunch of binary
classification problems, you can very
efficiently learn words vectors.
And if you run this algorithm, you will be
able to learn pretty good word vectors.
Now of course, as is the case in
other areas of deep learning as well,
there are open source implementations.
And there are also pre-trained word
vectors that others have trained and
released online under permissive licenses.
And so if you want to get going
quickly on a NLP problem, it'd be
reasonable to download someone else's word
vectors and use that as a starting point.
So that's it for the Skip-Gram model.
In the next video, I want to share
with you yet another version of a word
embedding learning algorithm that is maybe
even simpler than what you've seen so far.
So in the next video,
let's learn about the Glove algorithm.